sometimes they can fly more than six
kilometers to get enough nectar and
pollen back because they need a
plentiful and vast supply it's a huge
problem and to solve that problem
requires massive organization where the
bees have an almost incredible solution
anam has set up an observation hive it's
completely dark inside
and so infrared cameras reveal what's
going on there's all sorts of bad is
going on initially looks very chaotic it
looks like bees are everywhere
but you can see some vibrations going on
and some movements that are actually
part of a very sophisticated
communication system
the bees perform a striking behavior
that's key to solving the problem of
gathering enough food it's called the
waggle dance the waggle dance is a very
sophisticated way of directing forages
towards nectar in the environment so
it's sat-nav for bees it's telling them
where to go
the waggle dance isn't just for show
this bee has found a good source of food
and she's performing a set of very
precise movements to tell the others
exactly where to find it and it tells in
the direction and the distance of the
nectar the best way to understand how
the waggle dance actually works is to
get up high because then you can get a
view of the landscape in which the bees
are operating this church tower gives
Adam a bees eye view of the landscape
from up here it's easy to see where the
Sun lies over the landscape and where it
would be if it were on the horizon the
imagine the Sun drops down to the
horizon that's the line the bees have to
follow and that's what the waggle house
is doing it's giving them direction
one of the dancing bees in the hive was
waggling at an angle of five degrees so
if this tower were a massive beehive the
waggle dance would be telling us that
the nectar is five degrees from the
relative position of the Sun somewhere
in that direction but they can also
advertise distance because the duration
of that waggle runner a central
component tells the bees how far away
the resources the closer it is the
shorter the waggle run
you